As a logistics employee, your role
is critical to patient care.
Whether you order, distribute, store or manage inventory,
you provide care to patients through clinical staff.
Having an enterprise system is important because
it gets rid of the silos that can form within departments
or levels or among employees.
When it comes to patient care, silos will only slow down
the communication and the actions needed
to provide the best care to Veterans and their families.
For instance, in the facility, an inventory manager
takes care of the women's clinic.
Over the past month, the inventory manager has noticed
an increase in supplies being used for the area.
After talking to the clinicians in the clinic,
it is discovered that the census for women Veterans
has increased for the facility.
After delivering supplies to the OIF/OEF unit,
and talking to the OEF/OIF coordinator,
it has also been discovered that the facility now
provides child care to Veterans while they
go to their appointments.
As a result, the inventory manager works
with the women's clinic nurse manager and staff
to increase the levels to ensure the unit would
have enough supplies for patient care.
However, if the inventory manager only spoke
with logistic staff and only worked within the silo,
critical information would have been missed.
Levels would not have been increased
to deal with the increase of patients
to the women's clinic, and as a result, the inventory
manager would have had to spend more money
to overnight the orders.
Or worse, the unit would have had stock outages.
At the end of the day, patient care
would have been greatly impacted.